
This is not a final version. 

To avoid confusion so far as it is possible, here is a short list of terms which I use in the following:
current position: This always means the last position which we received from GPS, no matter what the map shows or the user does. While using navit it was confusing for me, that I could set my current position. I think for routing purposes, it's better to distinguish between "current position" and "starting position"
place: a place is a single result of an search for example. So a place-object might contain "label", "type" (could be "poi", "address", "coordinates"), "long", "lat". The "type" attribute would be handy for choosing a proper icon in the bookmarks, for example.
route: This means a list of places + route-options. The first item is called "starting position", the last one just "destination" and everything between "intermediate destinations". A route object might contain a list of place-objects, route-type (fastest/shortest/eco), vehicle (car/bike/etc.) and other options.
tracking: means that the map is center around the current position.

The Menu:
Currently, the menu opens when you click on the map. To me this behavior don't seem intuitive. I think clicking on a point on the map should open a small pop-up, which offers information on the nearest POI/Address/Street/etc. and options to set this place as destination or add it to the route. The Main Menu should be accessed through a dedicated menu button, which may have the common "three bar" icon and is an osd and thus can be edited (1.6.1.2).

1. Main Menu: (I am missing a way to set the number of columns and rows here :/ This should adapt to the screen size)
	[1.1] Route (This screens allows to edit the current route. Adding, removing and changing the order of the intermediate destinations. Selecting options like vehicle, avoiding specific street-types and maybe fastest/shortest/eco-route. A task for the vehicleprofiles XML, which may need a slightly new structure then. The starting position should be the current position by default, but should be able to be edited just like the other places on the list. Optional Feature: A "find the best order" button. So if you have a route which contains the places A, B, C, D, E and F, Navit finds the shortest/fastest/eco route, which may be A, C, B, E, D, F, with A and F fixed, since these are start and end.)
	1.2 Search (This should be a universal search for pretty much everything. The user should just have to drop an arbitrary collection of info here, as he/she was using goo... you know ^^. "Info" may be country, town, street, housenumber, POIs, lakes, rivers etc. The result list should be sorted by distance to current position. Clicking on an item in the search results offers the following actions:)
		1.2.1 Show on map (This has to deactivate tracking, so the map does not move back to the current position)
		[1.2.2] Set as destination (Works pretty well already, should open the route-editing screen 1.1, not visible when the current route contains a starting position and more than 0 destinations)
		[1.2.3] Add to route (This adds the item to the end of the route and opens the route-editing screen 1.1, only visible when the current route contains a starting position and at least one destination)
		1.2.4 Add as Bookmark (Nothing to change here)
		*POIs* (now since the user can just type in for example a town AND a type of POI he is looking for, this point is not necessary anymore)
	1.3 Recent Destinations (This list is automatically generated as the user roughly reaches a searched-before destination. Navit shouldn't add every single destination, which the user clicked on in the search results, to keep this list relevant)
		1.3.1 [List of recent dest.] (Every Item in the list should show the date of the last visit and the distance from the current position. The distance doesn't have to be calculated by full routing, beeline distance is close enough. Clicking on an item opens the same menu as under 1.2, a button for deleting a specific item would be nice)
		1.3.2 Clear recent destinations. (People like to cover their tracks, who doesn't feel the need to clear their history from time to time, lol ;) )
	1.4 Bookmarks (It's pretty much the same thing as 1.3, but manually generated by the user)
		1.4.1 [List of bookmarks] (a button for deleting a specific item would be nice, no button for deleting the whole list here. Accidentally pressing that button would be frustrating :)
	1.5 Actions (Maybe a better name would be "Tools" or "Extras". 
	1.6 Settings
		1.6.1 Appearance
			1.6.1.1 Map
				1.6.1.1.1 Terrain colors (Here the user can pick the colors which are set in the polygons-layer now. Since there are so many different polygons, only the most important ones are to be colored by the user, the other colors are shades of the chosen colors. For each type of polygon 2 colors are to be chosen. One for the day-layout and one for the night-layout)
				1.6.1.1.2 Street appearance (Again, the colors for the most important streets can be set, similar street types are automatically colored in similar shades. There should be an option to let the streets appear as thicker or thinner lines, but that should be a global option, so that a street_4_land is always thicker than a street_3_land, for example, and the user doesn't have to mess around with zoomlevels)
				1.6.1.1.3 Pitch of the 3D View
				1.6.1.1.4 Autozoom preset (off/close/medium/further away, autozooming should be temporarily deactivated, when a search result is shown on the map 1.2.1)
			1.6.1.2 On-screen-Display (Here the user can add, move, resize and delete osd-controls, including the "static" and the "moving" cursor. Maybe you could implement a table system, so that the area, where the map is drawn, is divided into 25 columns and 25 rows. Each osd-control could be offered in 3 different sizes (e.g. for a speed warner control: small(1x1 cell), medium(2x2 cells) and large (3x3 cells)), like widgets on an android home screen. Since the controls are no longer at absolute positions, the layout can adapt a lot better to different screen sizes.)
			1.6.1.3 Day/Night Layout.
				1.6.1.3.1 Day Layout
				1.6.1.3.2 Night Layout
				1.6.1.3.3 Set automatically by time.
					1.6.1.3.3.1 Time to switch to Day-Layout
					1.6.1.3.3.2 Time to switch to Night-Layout
				[1.6.1.3.4] Set automatically by ambient brightness (Only available on devices with a brightness sensor, like android-devices)
		1.6.2 Speech instructions
			1.6.2.1 Voice (male/female, language is determined by the language setting 1.6.3)
			1.6.2.2 Speed (characters per second or something like that)
			1.6.2.3 Frequency (low/mid/high, how often should an instruction should be said.)
		1.6.3 Language
		1.6.4 Units (Metric/Imperial)
		1.6.5 Vehicle (Maybe a profile system for these settings would be handy, especially on mobile devices)
			1.6.5.1 Fuel consumption (urban/extra urban/combined, gas price. This could be used to estimate the gas consumption and cost of the current route, which can be displayed in the route editing screen 1.1.)
			1.6.5.2 Speed (Since not every car/driver can/wants to drive at the max speed that is listed in the <roadprofile> tags, this ishelpful to improve the ETA of the current route.)
				
	[1.7] Stop Routing/Continue Routing
